# Zones
Locations are abstracted into zones, which are areas with 1 or 2 interesting features. Usually, a room is made up of a few zones, although small rooms might be just 1 zone. These zones are represented by cards, drawings, or battle maps arranged to indicate their relative position and adjacency.

# Trys
During adventure play, time is measured in trys of roughly 6 minutes so that 10 try takes 1 hour. 

Each try, the party can attempt 1 task.  At the end of each try, the judge rolls a d10. If the judge rolls a 1, the party has an encounter chosen or randomly selected by the judge. If a task takes more than one try, the judge instead rolls 1d10 for each try the task takes, triggering an encounter if any of them come up 1.

Making too much noise, breaking open a smelly potion, building a bonfire, and similar attention attracting actions make a random encounter more likely. For each sense that might alert enemies, (sound, sight, smell, etc.), one more face of the d10 (2, 3, etc.) indicates an encounter. 

Judges should take into account the senses of the monsters in the dungeon when deciding how many senses are affected. Goblins can smell potions, dragons can sense gold, and spellsniffers can sense the dweomer of magic; using these things could attract attention from them if they're in the dungeon.

# Tasks
Most common tasks that can be done in a few minutes take 1 try. Common examples include: searching a zone, picking a lock, or fighting a combat. At the judge’s discretion, some tasks might take multiple trys.

## Simultaneous Tasks
If characters work on different activities simultaneously, it still only counts as 1 try. However, in dark conditions, such as by torch or lantern light, party members can only work simultaneously if they each have their own light. Sometimes other resources or circumstances will also limit the party's ability to work simultaneously.

# Ranges
The rules often refer to one of the following four ranges between zones:
* (in) Reach: in the same zone – everything here can be interacted with directly. Grabs and strikes have a range of reach.
* Near (by): in an adjacent zone – not in your current zone but you could move there quickly or maybe throw something. Thrown weapons have a range of near.
* Far (away): in a non-adjacent zone, but within sight - you can shoot a bow here but not get there directly. Bows have a range of far
* Remote: too far away to interact with.

# Rounds
During combat, time is measured in rounds of roughly 6 seconds so that 10 rounds takes 1 minute.

## Actions
Each round, every character gets to take 1 action such as attacking, treating a wound, picking a pocket, casting a spell, or using a potion.

## Setup
Characters can also optionally perform 1 setup for that action, such as moving to a near zone, falling prone, standing up, aiming a ranged attack, or charging a spell. You can also use your action to perform 1 additional setup.

## Management
Characters can also perform some item management, which can include drawing, picking up, stowing, or dropping as many as 2 items each round. You can also manage 1 additional item as setup or use your action to manage 2 additional items.

# Initiative
If the player's characters initiate combat, they take their turn first; otherwise the judge's takes their turn. Next, the other side takes their turn and the round ends. In subsequent rounds, turns are taken in the same order.

## Ambushes
If one side ambushes or surprises the other, then the surprised side cannot take any setup actions for the first round.

# Heeding
As setup or before combat starts, you can heed any creatures that you can perceive. Each heeded creature takes up 1 slot of your focus. If you lose your focus or can no longer perceive them, they cease to be heeded.

## Parry
When you or an ally within reach rolls a block check against an attack from a creature you are heeding, you can attempt to parry the attack. Roll 2d6 if you are wielding a shield and 1d6 for each melee weapon wielded if blocking a melee attack. If any of these dice roll the same number as the block check, you parry the attack as if the attack were blocked.

## Interruptions
If a character performs setup for their action, then any characters on the other side who are heeding them can immediately take a single action (without setup) in an attempt to interrupt them. Each character can attempt to interrupt only once per round.

# Attacking
Making an attack is an action. When a character is attacked, they make either a Gear(block) or Gear(dodge) check to determine if and where the attack lands. Granting advantage to an attack gives disadvantage to the Gear(block) or Gear(dodge) check and disadvantage on an attack grants advantage to this check.

## Melee Attacks
Melee attacks have a range of reach and cannot be made at longer ranges.

## Thrown Attacks
Thrown attacks can be used against targets in reach or nearby. Thrown attacks have disadvantage unless they are made with throwing weapons.

## Shot Attacks
Shot attacks can be made at targets in reach, nearby, or far away. Shot attacks have disadvantage.

## Improvised Weapons
Items not intended as weapons are said to be improvised weapons.  Bows used to make melee attacks and heavy melee weapons used to make thrown attacks also count as improvised weapons. Attacks made with Improvised weapons have disadvantage. Improvised weapons have no special properties unless allowed by the judge.

## Aiming
Aiming a ranged weapon at a target can be done as setup and grants advantage to all thrown attacks or shot attacks against that target until the aim is lost. (negating the normal disadvantage inherent in these attacks). Aiming requires 1 focus slot for targets in reach, 2 focus slots for nearby targets, and 3 focus slots for targets far away. If this focus is lost, the target moves, or the aimer takes any action or setup unrelated to making ranged attacks against the target, the aim is lost. You cannot aim at targets that you cannot see.

# Spellcasting
Casting a spell is an action. All spells need be charged as setup to the action of being cast.

## Charging 
Charging a spell fills a number of focus slots equal to the level of the spell. If this focus is lost before the spell is cast, the spell fails. 

## Concentrating 
Spells that require concentration end when this focus is lost.
